Another idea that stuck with me, stemming from the anime series Hunter X Hunter, was the idea that you can never win if you are focussed on not losing. In the series, two characters take turns to challenge the other to a bet. One character made sure to always choose the option that was safe, meaning he would benefit regardless of whether he ends up being right or wrong, but a spectator makes the comment that he will never win with a strategy like this. How so, how could this be? That was what I asked myself after watching this scene. 

It seems intuitive, right, if you don't lose, you are winning. Go through life always picking the safe option, and everything will be fine right? This is true if you happen to be in a relatively fortunate position. It's ok to pick the safe option if everything in life is going relatively well and you are just trying to preserve what you have. Often, however, life finds ways to set you back and you can get stuck in situations where over time, you are taxed physically or mentally. In situations like this, where staying at the same place is quivalent to losing, you want to get out as soon as possible. Hanging around is ok, just not when the building is on fire and smoke is building up around you. These situations call for more aggressive strategies, strategies where you have to risk a temporary bad outcome to secure a better long-term solution. 

For instance, imagine that you have a spouse who constantly abuses you emotionally or physically. It is risky to leave that person, especially if you don't have many other connections in your life and you feel like you depend on that person. But this risk is still worth taking since it'll lead to better long-term wellbeing for you. Rather than 


