# Stop Winning

In the election arc of the anime series Hunter X Hunter, the main antagonist is this highly intriguing character called Pariston Hill. He is mysterious, ambiguous and yet unmistakably evil. In the breakdown of this characters motivation by Ging, one of the protagonists of the arc, was something that really stuck with me. Pariston Hills is hard to defeat not because he is playing to win, but he's playing to have fun. Every move he makes is not trying to make himself win, but rather to make the situation more chaotic and interesting. This is such a powerful idea: don't play to win, play to have fun.   

It's easy to get stuck on a temporary goal, or get lost and captured by the idea of winning. Whether it's a sports game, a video game, getting a job or meeting new friends. The ends seem to mean everything when you want it to happen so desperately. This focus is good for motivation and drive, but playing a game to win is a terrible strategy. Life is not a closed system game. It's not like chess or go. There is no predefined win or lose state. This makes life extremely difficult to play, because you have to constantly adapt to countless variables and constantly adjust to your own definition of a win state. When you play to have fun, or to screw your opponents over, or to make the situation more interesting, you are making this open nature of life into an advantage. You allow the unforseen humour, drama, conflict, heartbreak and joy to enter your life. In fact, you welcome it. Even in a closed system game, focusing on winning is shining a spotlight on that checkmate, and ignoring the beautiful strategies and positions at play as the chess game is developing. You ignore the beauty of the human minds playing the game and the strategies to focus on the outcome. If you are a chess bot looking to win, that's fine, but humans don't really even care about winning. We think winning will being us joy and happiness, but learning to focus on the journey and having fun along the way makes life so much more rewarding.

Life is also an endless series of games. It's much like swimming in the ocean. We have the ability to move around on our own, but everyone else and the universe will push us around as it pleases. Instead of insisting on fighting the wave to reach a certain position, seeing where the wave takes you and swimming efficiently to see the fish beneath, the sunset, the flock of birds is a much more efficient approach to life.
